# Kubectl Prof

This is a kubectl plugin that allows you to profile production applications with low-overhead by generating
[FlameGraphs](http://www.brendangregg.com/flamegraphs.html). Also, for Java applications, 
[JFR](https://docs.oracle.com/javacomponents/jmc-5-4/jfr-runtime-guide/about.htm#) format can be generated by adding `--jfr` option.
More functionalities will be added in the future.

Running `kubectl-prof` does **not** require any modification to existing pods.

This is an open source fork of [kubectl-flame](https://github.com/yahoo/kubectl-flame) with several new features and bug fixes.

## Table of Contents

- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Installing](#installing)
- [How it works](#how-it-works)
- [Contribute](#contribute)
- [Maintainers](#maintainers)
- [License](#license)

## Requirements

* Supported languages: Go, Java (any JVM based language), Python, Ruby, and NodeJS
* Kubernetes that use some of the following container runtimes:
    * CRI-O (default)
    * Containerd
    * Docker (support will be removed since is deprecated as container runtime from Kubernetes v1.20 and will be removed in [Kubernetes v1.24](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2022/01/07/kubernetes-is-moving-on-from-dockershim/))

## Usage

### Profiling Java Pod

In order to profile a Java application in pod `mypod` for 1 minute and save the flamegraph as `/tmp/flamegraph.html` run:

```shell
kubectl prof mypod -t 1m --lang java -f /tmp/flamegraph.html
```

*NOTICE*: for java case, last version of [async-profiler](https://github.com/jvm-profiling-tools/async-profiler) produces html output, while rest of tools still producing svg outputs

### Profiling Alpine based container

Profiling Java application in alpine based containers require using `--alpine` flag:

```shell
kubectl prof mypod -t 1m -f /tmp/flamegraph.html --lang java --alpine
```

*NOTICE*: this is only required for Java apps, the `--alpine` flag is unnecessary for Go profiling.

### Profiling Java Pod and generate JFR output

Profiling Java Pod and generate JFR output require using `--jfr` flag:

```shell
kubectl prof mypod -f flight.jfr -t 5m -l java --jfr 
```

### Profiling specifying the container runtime

Supported container runtimes values are: `crio`, `containerd` and `docker`

```shell
kubectl prof mypod -t 1m -f /tmp/flamegraph.html --lang java --runtime crio
```

### Profiling Python Pod

In order to profile a Python application in pod `mypod` for 1 minute and save the flamegraph as `/tmp/flamegraph.svg` run:

```shell
kubectl prof mypod -t 1m --lang python -f /tmp/flamegraph.svg
```

### Profiling Golang Pod

In order to profile a Python application in pod `mypod` for 1 minute and save the flamegraph as `/tmp/flamegraph.svg` run:

```shell
kubectl prof mypod -t 1m --lang go -f /tmp/flamegraph.svg
```

### Profiling Node Pod

In order to profile a Python application in pod `mypod` for 1 minute and save the flamegraph as `/tmp/flamegraph.svg` run:

```shell
kubectl prof mypod -t 1m --lang node -f /tmp/flamegraph.svg
```

### Profiling Ruby Pod

In order to profile a Python application in pod `mypod` for 1 minute and save the flamegraph as `/tmp/flamegraph.svg` run:

```shell
kubectl prof mypod -t 1m --lang ruby -f /tmp/flamegraph.svg
```

### Profiling sidecar container

Pods that contains more than one container require specifying the target container as an argument:

```shell
kubectl prof mypod -t 1m --lang go -f /tmp/flamegraph.svg mycontainer
```

### Profiling Golang multi-process container

Profiling Go application in pods that contains more than one process require specifying the target process name
via `--pgrep` flag:

```shell
kubectl prof mypod -t 1m --lang go -f /tmp/flamegraph.svg --pgrep go-app
```

### Additional info. For Docker runtime

* Java profiling assumes that the process name is `java`.
* Python profiling assumes that the process name is `python`.
* Ruby profiling assumes that the process name is `ruby`.

Use `--pgrep` flag if your process name is different.

## Installation

### Pre-built binaries

See the [release](https://github.com/josepdcs/kubectl-prof/releases/tag/v0.3.0) page for the full list of pre-built assets. And download the binary according yours architecture.

### Installing for Linux x86_64
```shell
curl -sL https://github.com/josepdcs/kubectl-prof/releases/download/v0.3.0/kubectl-prof_v0.3.0_linux_x86_64.tar.gz -o kubectl-prof.tar.gz
tar xvfz kubectl-prof.tar.gz && sudo install kubectl-prof /usr/local/bin/
```

## Building

### Install source code and golang dependencies

```sh
$ go get -d github.com/josepdcs/kubectl-prof
$ cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/josepdcs/kubectl-prof
$ make install-deps
```

### Build binary

```sh
$ make
```

### Build Agents Containers

Modify [Makefile](Makefile), property DOCKER_BASE_IMAGE, and run: 

```sh
$ make agents
```

## How it works

`kubectl-prof` launch a Kubernetes Job on the same node as the target pod. Under the hood `kubectl-prof`
use [async-profiler](https://github.com/jvm-profiling-tools/async-profiler) in order to generate flame graphs for Java
applications. Interaction with the target JVM is done via a shared `/tmp` folder. Golang support is based
on [ebpf profiling](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Berkeley_Packet_Filter). Python support is based
on [py-spy](https://github.com/benfred/py-spy). Ruby support is based on [rbspy](https://rbspy.github.io/). NodeJS
support is also based on [ebpf profiling](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Berkeley_Packet_Filter). Remains support for [perf](https://perf.wiki.kernel.org/index.php/Main_Page) but not recommended. In order for Javascript Symbols to be resolved, node process needs to be run with `--prof-basic-prof` flag.

## Contribute

Please refer to [the contributing.md file](Contributing.md) for information about how to get involved. We welcome
issues, questions, and pull requests

## Maintainers

- Josep Damià Carbonell Seguí: josepdcs@gmail.com, josepdcs@ext.inditex.com

### Special thanks to the original Author

- Eden Federman: efederman@verizonmedia.com
- Verizon Media Code

## License

This project is licensed under the terms of the [Apache 2.0](LICENSE-Apache-2.0) open source license. Please refer
to [LICENSE](LICENSE) for the full terms.
